# Communication

Communication is one of our main values. We believe that transparency and communication are essential to the development of good software products. In our experience, communication is the main point of product problem generation.

## Meetings

We are aware that meetings are necessary but can be huge time wasters. That's why we take precautions to respect each other's time and attention during any meeting we ought to do.

If you are hosting a meeting:

* Use any communication channel, preferably Slack or e-mail, to organize when and where the meeting should take place.
* Check the invitee's calendars before sending an invitation, ensuring that everyone will be able to attend the meeting.
* When creating the meeting's event, add an agenda describing what's going to be discussed in the meeting and its goal. Meetings without an agenda are doomed to be unproductive.
* Reserve a room on Fliperama's calendar if necessary. Avoid having meetings at open spaces — the noise could be a problem.

If you are participating:

* If you receive a meeting invitation, don't accept if you think your participation is not necessary. Just be sure to decline it with a note, so the inviter will know why you've refused.
* If you're in a meeting, **be** in that meeting. In other words, try to contribute as much as possible and keep your attention on the subject. Electronic devices (like cell phones and laptops) should be used only if strictly necessary.
* If you feel that you don't need to be at that meeting anymore, don't feel bad about leaving earlier. Politely ask if your presence is still necessary, explain that you can't afford more time at the moment and leave.

## Communication routines

Here we describe some of our communication routines.

### Weekly update

Once a week we do a standup meeting so we can communicate others about:

* What we've been doing
* What we learned
* What was good
* What was bad
* What can be improved

### Project planning meetings

!!! attention
    This section is missing content about Kanban and continuous flow

Review the work that we shipped last week, showing the actual product. Review product priorities. Pull what we estimate to be an appropriate amount of work for the week into the week Sprint.

Review bugs. Pull any important bugs into the Sprint and prioritize them at the top of the queue before everything else. We want to always be fixing what's broken first.

Review engineering and refactoring tasks. Pull cards into the Backlog based on what the customer, designers and developers believe is appropriate given the previously stated product design and bug tasks. Re-sort the entire Backlog queue according to priority. Cards that were at the top of the list last week may be moved to the bottom or back to other boards or lists.

The task management system is the canonical repository for plans. When things are only said on the phone, in person, in emails that don't include the whole group, or in private chats, information gets lost, forgotten, or misinterpreted. The problems expand when someone joins or leaves the project.

During this meeting, seek discussion with, not instruction from, clients. We can't talk about solutions until we identify the underlying problems.

### One-on-one

Every month we do one-on-one meetings where we review the individual indicators, satisfaction with the work, discuss any individual problem and do career mentoring with the younger ones. The purpose of one-on-one meetings is to build relationship, offer support and realign expectations.

When going to the meeting, it is important to be [prepared](https://m.signalvnoise.com/how-to-prepare-for-a-one-on-one-meeting-as-an-employee-fc2a46912a4c). Think about these questions in the day before:

* What should we start to do?
* What should we stop doing?
* What should we continue to do?
* What difficulties are you facing?
* What are you going to do next month to develop yourself and how can we help you?
* How can we improve current processes?

This is the time to talk about anything. We want to help each person create a clear list of goals based on a career plan and the organization priorities.

### Quarter update

Once a quarter we run a meeting to update everyone with the current status of the organization and plans for the future. We talk about:

* Major organization announcements
* Our culture: what we're doing that is good and what should we improve as a team
* An overview of our current and new customers
* Sales Pipeline
* Cash flow: a summary of the major incoming and outgoing funds and debts
