# Working hours

We work in a [sustainable pace](http://www.extremeprogramming.org/rules/overtime.html). We estimate work and schedule it conservatively, and set realistic expectations with clients about the pace of delivery. This doesn't mean that we don't work hard. Being productive is a vital part of maintaining the trust that our clients give us, and it's important not to let them down.

We work from 5 to 6:30 hours a day for our clients on software development and consulting and 1:30 in [investment time](https://thoughtbot.com/playbook/our-company/time). When taking time off during client work, we discuss how it will impact the schedule with other team members.

We're flexible by the time we start working. Flexible hours means that sometime one may work non-traditional hours in the day. Some of us start at 8:00 a.m. and others 10:00 a.m., or even 1:00 p.m. This flexibility should respect the project and client's needs.

We should try to have 3 hours in the work day that overlap between to allow for synchronous communication. This time is currently set **between 2:00 p.m. and 5:00 p.m.**.

## Investment time

This is the time we use for investment in ourselves, the organization and in our community. We use this time to learn new things, contribute to open source projects, discuss interesting things, organize or attend community events, prepare or give a talk internally or at an event. This time is very important for us as the software industry is a rapidly evolving industry, and we want to keep improving ourselves and our organization.

We organize our projects in the [Hacking Trello](https://trello.com/b/6Qg8rle1/mochileiros-hacking) board, and the blog posts in the [Blog Trello](https://trello.com/b/zdmuA1MN/mochileiros-blog) board.

Ideas for the investment time:

* Contribute to open source software
* Write a blog post
* Prepare an internal, meetup or conference talk
* Help in the organization of a local meetup
* Help improve internal MLabs processes, review this document
* Do pair programming with a colleague to teach and learn new things

## Remote work

Keep in mind that when someone in the team is working remotely, she is not in the office to hear what you are communicating with other team members. If there is one team member working remotely, the whole team should work as if it were remote.

When remote working, over-communicate. All decisions about the project should be communicated on the project's Slack channel or in an online document where everyone is able to contribute to. Never communicate in a PVT or private channel. Remember, we're a team, and we're actively transparent. It is expected that when using asynchronous communication in the project will not be immediately available to respond, and not expect them to.

If you aren't in the office, always keep an eye in the project's alert Slack channel to know what is happening in the project. There, you will see notifications from all the tools we currently use: Github, New Relic, Heroku, AWS, Log Entries, Sentry and Circle CI.

## Holidays and days off

We usually have 14 days off in the end of the year for Christmas and New Years eve. We also take days off in the national holidays. If you want to take some days off, first, talk with your team to manage how to do this without affecting the project delivery estimation.

## Time tracking

!!! attention
    This section is missing content.

We work and bill our customers by the hours we work. We use [Toggl](https://www.toggl.com) to keep track of our time.

### Toggl best practices

Do not write "code review", "pair programming", "helping others" or "meeting" in the description of a time entry, it is not very informative. Prefer to point the name of the task where you are working.

When tracking a meeting in Toggl, select the client's "Meeting" default task and make it clear what meeting was in the description. Type "Sprint planning meeting".
