# Starting new projects

!!! attention
    This section is missing content.

## Before starting

É de extrema importância definir os processos a as funções das pessoas involvidas antes de começar o projeto.

Iremos aderir aos processos do cliente? Qual é a entrada e a saída da fase de desenvolvimento? Quando uma tarefa é considerada pronta? Quais são as pessoas de ponto de contato em cada lado?

### _Definition of Ready_

O item no backlog está escrito como uma User Story, definido o suficiente para que o time de desenvolvimento começe a trabalhar nele? Seguir [INVEST](https://www.agilealliance.org/glossary/invest) ajuda a relembrar de boas características de User Stories.

**Independente**: o item tem a liberdade de ser movido sem muito esforço, levando em consideração a sua prioridade relativa. Se os seus itens são dependentes, uma boa ideia seria combiná-los em um único item.

**Negociável**: enquanto o item estiver no backlog, este pode se reescrito ou até descartado, dependendo do negócio, mercado, requiremento técnico ou qualquer outro motivo solicitado pelos membros do time.

**Valioso**: o item realmente traz valor relacionado ao projeto para o stakeholder (parte interessada).

**Estimável**: se não é possível estimar o tamanho de um item, este nunca vai ser planejado, encarragado, e consequentemente, nunca irá se tornar parte da iteração. Portanto, não há sentido em manter itens desse tipo no backlog.

**Pequeno**: tente manter o tamanho do item para ser desenvolvido em poucos dias por uma pessoa.

**Testável**: tenha em mente que um item deve somente ser considerado PRONTO (_DONE_), em meio de outros fatores, se foi testado com sucesso. Se não se consegue testar um item por de falta de informação, ele não deve ser considerado um bom condidato para fazer parte do Backlog. Isto é particularmente verdade para times que seguem o TDD.

### _Definition of Done_

A _Definition of Done_ (DoD) é usada para avaliar quando uma _User Story_ foi concluída, além de conduzir a um trabalho de qualidade. _Done_ (Pronto) significa que foi codificado de acordo com o padrão estabalecido, revisado, implementado com Desenvolvimento Orientado a Testes unitários (TDD), testado com 100 por cento dos testes automatizados, integrado e documentado.

The Definition of Done ensures everyone on the team knows exactly what is expected of everything the team delivers. It ensures transparency and quality fit for the purpose of the product and organization. It limits the cost of rework once a feature has been accepted as DONE. Having an explicit contract limits the risk of misunderstanding and conflict between the development team and the customer.

We should include Feature Scenarios describing the requirements of the product. We should deliver acceptance tests based on the Feature Scenarios.

Our DoD is:

* Feature is tested against acceptance criteria
* Unit/functional tests written and passing
* Integration tests passing
* CI successful build and linters passing
* Peer code review performed and issues resolved
* Project deployed and working on the test environment identical to production
* UX designer and QA reviewed and approved
* Client approved

### Roles

At the beginning of the project, it is defined who handles each role, and how to communicate amongst the team and the client.

Who is responsible for the QA? Who is responsible for deploying to production? Who is responsible for work priorization? The client will deliver mockups and prototypes for us or are we going to use our design process internally?

### Proof of Concept

Before starting any project that use a new technology, we find it extremely helpful to test a PoC (Proof of Concept). This reduces the chance of a failure and problems because of things that are out of our control.

For example, we had to add React into an architecture of a client and we experienced several problems to test the components. If we had added a simple Hello World component with tests before starting the project, we would have identified this problem and better estimated the effort to deliver the project.

## Stakeholders

A software project is successful when it has met the expectations of the stakeholders. A stakeholder could be:

- A project manager
- The owner of the business
- The customer who receives the deliverables

Identify:

- Who is the point of contact?
- Who are the interested parts?
  - Who can say No?
  - Who can sign off budgets?

Get to know them.

## Deliverables

Make the project goals clear. Meet with the stakeholders and discuss the possible outcomes. Turn them into a comprehensive list and priorize the needs. A good technique for doing this is the [SMART](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SMART_criteria) principle. Every goal has to be measurable or has a definition of done.

## Communication

Establish a schedule of meetings of cerimonies to report the project status.

- How the project is performing?
- Milestones are completed?
- What is being planned for the next period?

Communicate the stakeholders:

- Who should be informed about the changes?
- How often and when should they be informed?
- What is the degree of details of the information they should receive?

## Documentation

Keep a documentation to help everyone be on the same page and to make it easy to setup and run the project.

- Document the technical aspects of ther project on the README.md file
- Keep a system diagram if the project grows more than a couple of servers

## Infrastructure & Operations

- Setup the Continuous Integration and Delivery servers
- Setup the Bug Tracking System

## Third party integrations

- Make sure to have access to the API documentation

## Project Management

- Setup the project management tool
- Create the Product Backlog
- Make sure the Backlog scope is clearly structured
- What are the pain points and blockers?
